---
layout: post
comments: true
title : Bushfire Map
categories: [Projects]
---



<p style="text-align: center;"><iframe width="100%" height="720" frameborder="0" src="https://finnoscarmorgan.carto.com/builder/4d12d870-7ca4-42c5-8df7-766ce06dd159/embed" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>

<p style="text-align: center;"> This map is a simple visualisation of all placenames mentioned across all the stories and has not been cleaned. </p> 

<p style="text-align: center;"><iframe width="100%" height="720" frameborder="0" src="https://finnoscarmorgan.carto.com/builder/270eb76c-37cd-4ce9-9c59-2a0f2b85d28e/embed" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe></p>

<p style="text-align: center;"> This is a visualisation of the names of homesteads mentioned in the bushfire collection. Most of these homesteads use Indigenous language, and the homesteads visualised on this map have been located through historical gazettes and the Survey of Australian Placenames. Rather than attempting to rectify these homesteads to their potential location in their respective chapters, I have chosen to visualise every itteration of homesteads with the same names. 

 This map potentially shows the popularity and ubiquity of the use of Indigenous language in naming place, and potentially indicates why the authors may have chosen these names. For example, you will notice that a 'Kooringa' appears in NSW, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. 
 
For the narratives coded as Narrative Foreground the homestead seems to operate as the spatial totality of the entire chapter or story. References to Sydney or Melbourne (although recurrent) are often only locational.  This is not to say, however, that the geo-rectification of homesteads indicates any relationship with their real world referent. 

 For example,  For example, "A Terrible Christmas Day: A True Story of the Olden Time" (1892) opens by setting the scene at *Burraga run*.  It is a historical story, dating back to 1833 and the author is making clear that this is a frontier tale.  Burraga station is described at the outset as “situated near the north-eastern border of the tableland of New England,” further, “it had only been redeemed from the wilderness some two or three years before the time of the commencement of this narrative.” Indeed there is a Burraga station in NSW, however, according to the Survey of Australian place names it's actual location is just beyond the Blue Mountains. Further consultation of historical gazettes held by the NLA do not reveal an alternative Burraga run near this location. 

The point here is to ask what the function of evoking these names are? What do they add to the narrative, and what does it mean for these particular places to be defended or destroyed by fire?

Other authors seem to have constructed approximations of Indigenous sounding words as names of stations. These are not identifiable in The Survey of Australian Placenames. </p> 

These include:
- Corindah
- Wannonbah
- Linlarra
- Dunrobin
- Wollondoo
- Ilnrfold Station
- Kilmoro
- Moloxca Creek Station
- Peak Mount Station
- Molonga Creek Station
- Ngarahoe Station
- Wandinong
- Currumbede
- Currumbede Station
- Coulbarra
- Cassilis Station
- Narrgummie
- Mauaroo Plains
- Eurimba
- Warrandilla
- Kanamba Station
- Jarlee Downs
- Ashfield Station
- Western Plains Station
- Mannora
- Kuryong
- Marumbah Downs
- Marranga
- Bendebar
- Corong
- Wandinong
- Kolkibertoo
- Yarhamundoe
- Currumbede
- Midarmee
- Gpongarrie
- Pariuga
- Bulla Bulla Station
- Korralla Station
- Willawilla
- Willandoula
- Windomero
- Coorong
- Coomdurra
- Myalong
- Kanamba Station
- Kangatook
- Koolparri
- Tarabo
- Camardeen
- Tintora
- Tintaldra
- Warrandilla
- Quondong
- Tarabaroora
- Bungabee
- Currumbede
- Ashfield Station
- Western Plains Station
- Coulbarra
- Kolkibertoo
- Wandinong
- Wooronora
- Kolkibertoo
- Goonambool
- Mowarrah Station
- Whegongbong

